>>SUSAN MASINO: Hi.
I'm Susan Masino.
Have you ever wondered
what life is all about?
what it means to be here?
Have you ever felt like
you've been here before?
My son Jamie had a past life
that's going to blow you away,
and I'm going to
share it with you.
"Beyond Belief" with
George Noory starts now.
>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: And
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
And indeed, we have a
fascinating program with you,
with Susan Masino, who is a
rock historian journalist.
She has written about some
incredible rock groups
throughout her
career, but she's also
the author of "Secrets
of the Universe."
Susan, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
>>MASINO: Thank you, George.
Thanks for having me.
>>NOORY: Always a
pleasure to be here.
Tell me a little bit about
your life as a rock journalist.
Because that kind of
ties into your work as
a paranormal writer now with
"Secrets of the Universe."
>>MASINO: It does, yeah.
I've been a writer
for over 30 years.
I just finished my sixth book.
I did a biography of AC/DC
called "Let There Be Rock."
I also did "Family
Tradition: Three Generations
of Hank Williams."
Another book that I wrote
earlier in my career
is called "Famous
Wisconsin Musicians,"
and Les Paul wrote
the forward for me.
>>NOORY: Susan, explain the
jump into the paranormal.
How did that happen?
Something happened.
>>MASINO: Well, my grandmother,
when I was very, very young--
and it's kind of funny in a
way, because you'd think, well,
she's going to scare the
daylights out of you.
But we would go to bed
at night at her house,
and we would always
say our prayers.
And then she would tell us about
how her mother showed herself
after she died.
She came to her bedroom
to say goodbye to her.
And that just started
a whole lifetime
of how does that happen?
How is that possible?
Is it a good thing?
Is it a bad thing?
And I started reading every
book I could get my hands on.
And I've followed
your show for years.
I've gone to conferences.
I've done some ghost adventures.
>>NOORY: I met you
at a conference
just a couple years ago.
>>MASINO: Exactly.
And yeah, I'm fascinated
with all facets of it.
>>NOORY: At the outset
of this program,
you talked a little bit on
video of your son, Jamie,
and his paranormal experience.
>>MASINO: Yes.
>>NOORY: What happened?
>>MASINO: Oh my goodness.
He was four years
old at the time.
And he actually--
I kept a journal,
because he used to tell me
things, even when he was three.
He had a memory of building
the railroad cars in Wyoming.
>>NOORY: Huh.
Like a past life?
>>MASINO: Yeah.
He said his name was
James at that time, too.
They didn't have cars;
they only had horses.
He helped design the train cars,
and he talked about Wyoming.
He couldn't even pronounce
Wisconsin, where he lived.
But he knew everything
about Wyoming.
And later on, I found out that
they did build the first tracks
and train cars in Wyoming.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
How did a little kid
know that, right?
>>MASINO: Yeah.
Yeah.
I didn't know that.
And so that kind of passed.
And then one night, when
he was four, we went out.
And the movie "The Titanic"
was on HBO at the time.
And the babysitter was
watching the movie.
He must have gotten
up during the night
and watched the rest
of the movie with her.
Which the next day, I
wasn't really happy about.
Because it's not exactly
something you'd sit a--
>>NOORY: It's not
for little kids.
>>MASINO: Yeah, a four-year-old
to sit down and watch
this horrible tragedy.
But that very next
day, he was completely
obsessed with the
Titanic, the ship itself.
And he loved to draw and paint.
So he started drawing
pictures and painting.
And he knew all these things.
And this lasted for two years.
>>NOORY: And we've got some of
his pictures here, don't we?
>>MASINO: Yes.
Yes.
>>NOORY: So we'll be
taking a look at some.
Little Jamie, it's
kind of funny,
because my little
six-year-old grandson, Gavin,
he too is obsessed
with the Titanic.
And they won't let him watch
the movie at this point.
But he wants to know everything
about that ship and everything
else.
And I was talking
to him, and I'm
asking him questions like
he was on that ship before.
And it's kind of uncanny, Susan.
Because he kind of knows
things about that ship
that nobody should know.
>>MASINO: That's
exactly what Jamie was--
>>NOORY: I don't know
if he was a passenger
or if he was part of
the crew, or if he even
escaped in that other life.
But one day, maybe we can
get him and Jamie together.
What if they knew each
other in a past life?
>>MASINO: Well exactly.
Actually, when you mentioned
that to me earlier,
one of Jamie's friends
now-- he's 20 now.
One of his friends was
obsessed with the Titanic
when he was a child.
So we know another kid.
>>NOORY: Yeah, that could be.
Three of them.
>>MASINO: Yeah, yeah.
But Jamie, he started talking
about the flaws of the ship.
How it was-- they rushed
the production of it.
It was made out of
iron instead of steel.
When they hit the iceberg,
the emergency doors
closed and trapped all the
men in the boiler room.
And he used to sob over that.
And I was kind of like trying
to comfort him and saying,
well that's a horrible
thing, I know, honey.
And he's like, no,
you don't understand.
It shouldn't have happened.
That's not fair.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MASINO: It wasn't fair.
And, oh, he was-- It
was very-- And then he
started having
night terrors, where
he would go to sleep at
night, and within an hour,
you could hear him.
And he'd fly out of bed.
He'd come running
out of his room.
Like he was trying to escape.
He would be opening
all the doors;
he had to make sure he
didn't fall down the stairs.
So this went on and on.
And he used to talk
about, like you said,
stuff about the Titanic
that no child would know.
I mean, it wasn't like he
was watching anything or even
looking at the ship
when he'd draw it.
And he drew, like,
a cross-section.
If you cut it in half and
looked at it from the side,
he had all the--
>>NOORY: He had everything.
The compartments.
>>MASINO: Everything.
All the rooms, where
all the ladders were.
And so we finally got a CD-ROM
game that is a mystery game.
And you go on it, and
you knock on doors.
And they say, well you
need to go down to--
>>NOORY: This level or whatever.
>>MASINO: Yeah, and
find this object,
and take it to the
captain's quarters.
And he called everything
port and starboard.
He never said left and right.
>>NOORY: How does a
little kid know that?
>>MASINO: No.
Yeah, he used to
bark orders at us
sometimes, too, and
say "straight away."
Do it straight away.
And it was like, who is that?
He was so funny, but he
was so-- He knew everything
about the ship.
And when that game came out, he
knew his way around the ship.
He didn't even have to guess.
>>NOORY: That's fascinating.
>>MASINO: Yeah.
His sister played it with them.
And she wanted to
kind of explore.
And he says, don't go
down that stairwell,
it'll take you to
the wrong deck.
And then you'll have to
cross over to the port side.
And you know.
And one time, well, he drew many
times, the ship with the smoke
only coming out of three
out of four smokestacks.
And I said, well, why
isn't there any smoke
coming out of that?
And he was so matter of fact.
He was like, it's a
dummy stack, momma.
It's a dummy stack.
And I said, what do you mean?
What's a dummy stack?
And he said, it was for show.
They thought it looked better,
but they didn't need it.
>>NOORY: The symmetry;
they needed four.
>>MASINO: Yeah.
They didn't use it.
Which ended up being true.
It was a dummy stack.
But he-- he knew that
when he was like five.
>>NOORY: So how do you
put this all together?
What do you say?
>>MASINO: We talked to
his doctor about it.
And his doctor said, don't shake
him out of the night terrors.
Just kind of comfort him until
he comes out of it on his own.
And I let him talk about it.
I let him draw.
If he wanted a book,
I would buy the book.
I mean, I let him indulge in it.
Because I figured
it's coming out now;
I don't want him to suppress it
and then have problems later.
Although, it lasted
for two years.
>>NOORY: Still fascinated
with the Titanic?
>>MASINO: Oh yeah.
Yeah.
And what he said,
we were actually
on a show that
showcases that story
called "The Ghost
Inside My Child."
And they interviewed him
at the end of the show.
And he doesn't
remember a lot of it.
He remembers all the artwork.
But they said, well,
what do you really
remember about the experience?
And he said, I remember the
Titanic being as familiar to me
as my house was.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
Did he seem to grow out of it?
>>MASINO: He did.
But what happened was
they brought the exhibit
through the United States.
And it came to Chicago.
So we took him there.
And he was six at the time.
And he-- all the other
little kids there
were running around and playing
and doing normal things.
>>NOORY: Not him.
>>MASINO: He had to
look at every-- it
took us like three
hours to get through it,
because he had to look
at every single object.
>>NOORY: Was there
ever a point, Susan,
where you were
concerned about him?
>>MASINO: Oh absolutely.
I was wondering if, you know,
this is never going to go away.
Is this going to be a
lifetime thing or what?
You know.
But we figured if we
took him to the exhibit
and let him see actual
artifacts, that somehow it
would bring some
epiphany, some--
>>NOORY: Closure?
>>MASINO: Yeah, exactly.
And about a month or
two after the visit,
he had what I call
the death dream, which
was very-- it's still
hard to describe.
>>NOORY: So you think
he died on the ship.
>>MASINO: He did.
He did go down on the ship.
We're pretty sure,
actually, that he--
>>NOORY: It sounds like he was
a crew member or something.
>>MASINO: He designed the ship.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>MASINO: If you look
at Thomas Andrews,
the pictures of him and my son--
>>NOORY: They look the same?
>>MASINO: They look alike.
>>NOORY: Are you
convinced of that?
>>MASINO: Yes.
Yeah.
It's very creepy, actually.
He looks so much like him.
>>NOORY: So he
was the architect?
>>MASINO: Yeah, he
was the lead designer.
>>NOORY: No wonder he
knows where everything is.
>>MASINO: Oh yeah, no, he
knows everything about it.
But one night after we
had gone to the exhibit,
I had put him to bed.
And I was watching television.
And all of a sudden,
I heard this thumping
on the wall of his bedroom.
Just this rhythmic
bang, bang, bang, bang.
And I jumped up, and I ran
down, and I opened the door.
And he's up on all
fours, and he's
shaking so hard that
he's almost convulsing.
At first, I thought
about calling 911.
And I realized that
he was in a dream.
He couldn't see me; he
didn't know I was there.
And he was up on all fours
in a crouched position.
And he was shaking so hard that
the bed was hitting the wall,
and he's staring at the floor.
And before I could
even walk toward him,
this voice-- and it
wasn't a child's voice;
it was a man's voice.
>>NOORY: Coming from him?
>>MASINO: Yes.
And this man, the
terror in his voice,
I can't even describe it.
He screams, she's going down!
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MASINO: And I--
>>NOORY: It was the moment.
>>MASINO: That was it.
Yeah.
I realized he's experiencing
the sinking of the ship.
>>NOORY: This was as
it took him under.
>>MASINO: Yes.
Yes.
And it took about 45 minutes
for him to come out of it.
I had to sit with him.
I sat with him and
rubbed his back.
But he didn't see me.
He didn't know I was there.
And then he finally laid
down and went back to sleep.
And I was completely shaken.
I mean, it was horrifying.
>>NOORY: Did you ever
regress him in hypnosis?
>>MASINO: We did later on.
He just recently did that.
>>NOORY: And what
happened there?
>>MASINO: Actually
he saw the Titanic
being built in the shipyard.
He saw that.
>>NOORY: In regression?
>>MASINO: Yes.
And he did go into the
sinking of the ship.
And he had to be taken
out of it right away,
because he started
getting so upset.
So he did go in to
the memory of it.
>>NOORY: Was he married
or anything like that?
>>MASINO: Yes.
He left a wife and a daughter.
And they offered
him-- because of who
he was, they offered him
a seat on a lifeboat,
and he refused it.
The funny part was when
we did the other TV show,
they actually got a
blueprint from Thomas Andrews
from eBay, a copy of it.
A big blueprint of
the ship, and it
had all different
sections of it.
And I'd never seen it before,
and he had never seen it.
And they wanted it to look like
I had gave it to him as a gift.
And It didn't make the show.
They ran out of time.
But we rolled it out
on the kitchen table.
I called him in.
And I said, hey Jamie, I have
something special for you.
And we rolled it out,
and I looked at it.
And he sat down,
and he looked at it
for maybe a minute or two.
And the cameraman said, ask
him about the dummy stack.
Where's the dummy stack?
And it took him about
maybe 15 seconds,
and he pointed it
out immediately
and said, right here.
There's no intake
valve underneath where
the steam would be
released underneath it.
This is the dummy
stack right here.
And the whole room
just went silent.
Yeah, it was amazing.
>>NOORY: They tried to
trick him, didn't they?
>>MASINO: In a way, yeah.
They kind of tried to
stump him a little bit.
Took him less than two minutes.
>>NOORY: So at this point, what
do you think this all means?
That there's life after death?
What is this?
>>MASINO: We
absolutely come back.
I figure we-- You know, I've
heard people say it before,
that it's really hard
to learn everything
that we're supposed to learn.
I believe that we start out
from God, or from the universe,
and we're here to learn.
And if we don't learn what
we're supposed to learn,
or we don't complete what
we came here to complete,
we come back.
And he definitely-- he worked
on the trains in the 1800s;
he worked on the Titanic.
And he's wanted always to know,
because he wasn't born again
until '94, what happened between
1912, when the ship sank,
and 1994.
He wants to fill in
that blank somehow.
>>NOORY: Did this experience
change anything for you?
>>MASINO: Oh, it
made me-- I mean,
I always believed
in reincarnation.
I've always believed
in all of that.
But to see him go
through a two year period
like that with no coaching.
I mean, it wasn't like we
were giving him information.
>>NOORY: Sure, or
he was seeing things
and remembered them and stuff.
>>MASINO: Yeah.
He was drawing from memory.
It's really fascinating,
because you know,
you wonder too if it
all happens at once.
If we are living different
lifetimes at the same time.
And our soul is
kind of fragmented
into different facets.
Because as Einstein
believed, the past, present
and the future is all happening
at once, which is really
a crazy thing to try to
get your mind around.
>>NOORY: Does your
son Jamie believe
that he was on the Titanic?
>>MASINO: Oh absolutely.
>>NOORY: At this point?
>>MASINO: Yes.
>>NOORY: He does.
>>MASINO: And he's
at peace with it now.
>>NOORY: He is.
>>MASINO: He said he would
go down with it again.
>>NOORY: The fact that he
understands the life process,
and reincarnation,
and life after death--
seems like he's learned a lot.
>>MASINO: Well he
used to tell me
stuff like that
when he was little.
I mean, crazy things
that he would say.
I made-- in the
book that I put out,
I actually included the journal.
Because he told me things as a
really little kid, maybe three,
that was astounding.
He would say things that
would just blow you away,
and I'd write it down.
I kept notes.
>>NOORY: What would
you tell parents today
whose son or daughter
may be having
these kinds of experiences
about past lives?
>>MASINO: I think they should
try to let them express it.
Because I think a lot of
people would be more inclined--
>>NOORY: To suppress it.
>>MASINO: Yeah, to say, oh
honey, that was probably
a dream or you saw
that in a movie.
And I think it's
healthier, if it's
coming out, to let it come out.
Because it's coming
out for a reason.
And I think it's
better than-- to wait
till they get older it
might cause more problems.
A lot of the kids that
I've heard that have this
do have the night terrors.
They get up in the
middle of the night.
>>NOORY: It's probably
pretty normal isn't it?
>>MASINO: Yeah,
it's very common.
>>NOORY: But you would encourage
it, if you were going to.
>>MASINO: Yes.
Yes.
Because let them express it.
Let them draw pictures of it.
Or if they want books about it.
So that you can
read to them, even.
It seemed to bring
comfort to my son.
The more books we
got, the more--
they came out later
on with documentaries
on the ship and everything.
And it seemed to kind
of make him feel better.
Like see, I told you.
I was right.
>>NOORY: Now your son's only 20.
>>MASINO: Yes.
>>NOORY: What's he
doing career wise?
Or what does he want to be?
>>MASINO: He's
drawing and designing,
and he's going into film.
>>NOORY: OK.
So he's going to do
that as a profession.
>>MASINO: Yes.
>>NOORY: And so there's somewhat
of a tie-in with the past life.
>>MASINO: Oh absolutely.
He can draw.
He got into the
3D animation class
in Madison right
out of high school.
And they asked him to draw.
He had to do concept
art on the computer.
And they gave them an assignment
to draw whatever you want,
but it had to be very detailed.
And he drew the engine
room of a submarine that
was so detailed that they
used it at the conference.
>>NOORY: That is amazing.
>>MASINO: They actually
discouraged him,
because he was so young when
he came into the program.
And after they saw--
his teacher saw
the picture of the submarine,
he was like, this is amazing,
but it's crazy.
>>NOORY: What does this tell
you about life after death?
What have you learned
about this experience?
>>MASINO: Oh my gosh.
That we impact so many more
people than we realize.
That a lot of people don't
realize that everything
is so synchronistic, and you
meet people at the right time.
And that we travel-- I believe
we travel in soul groups,
where we all kind of
come back together.
>>NOORY: I think so, too.
>>MASINO: Yeah, when
you meet people.
>>NOORY: Friends that you
have in this existence,
you had in another existence.
>>MASINO: Or even like
your son was your father.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>MASINO: And that
sort of thing.
Yeah, definitely.
It's amazing.
It's very fascinating to me.
>>NOORY: Have you come
up with your own theories
on how it works?
>>MASINO: Oh my goodness.
Well as my son said,
when he was three,
he told me he chose
me and his sister.
>>NOORY: He probably did.
>>MASINO: This was one
of the first things
that he said about this.
And we said, what do
you mean you chose us?
And he was so like, you
don't know anything.
He's like, there's
windows in heaven, mama.
You know that, right?
So I think we get to choose.
>>NOORY: Well you
know, I've always
believed that we are
given that opportunity
to pick where do you want to go.
Do you want this family,
do you want this family?
Do you want that?
I mean, I don't know why I
didn't pick the Warren Buffett
family, but I'm happy
with what I did.
>>MASINO: I ask myself
the same question.
But we have free will, too.
So that's another thing.
You can agree to
whatever and still
come into life incarnated
again and decide
not to do anything
that you agreed to do.
And then I think you just
get booted back later on.
>>NOORY: No qualms about telling
people about life after death?
Lot of people are
skittish about that.
>>MASINO: I think life
would be so depressing,
to think that this is it?
We get one run at
it and that's it?
There's just too
many things to prove
that there's got
to be more to it.
>>NOORY: Now some religions
believe in life after death,
but they don't believe
in reincarnation.
You differ with that.
I differ with that.
How do you convince
them otherwise?
>>MASINO: There's
just too many things.
The show that my son was on,
the pilot show had, no pun
intended, a little
boy that remembered
being a pilot in World War II.
>>NOORY: I remember that story.
He was out of Chicago, I
think, the little kid was.
>>MASINO: And he remembered
the aircraft carrier he was on,
the plane he flew.
He went down in Hiroshima
during World War II.
>>NOORY: The tires would
burst when he landed.
And nobody knew that.
He did.
>>MASINO: Yeah.
Yeah.
How do you describe that if
he didn't actually do it?
Where did it come from?
>>NOORY: Exactly.
It's amazing how that works.
>>MASINO: Well, and it's really
becoming more and more common.
And it usually happens between
the ages of three and six
is what I'm finding.
>>NOORY: Where the
memory pops in.
>>MASINO: It starts
coming in, yes.
>>NOORY: And then
it leaves again.
So would you say
that your son, Jamie,
at this point in his
life, has forgotten
most of the things
he talked about when
he was three or four?
>>MASINO: I do, yeah.
He remembers the artwork
because we still have it.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MASINO: But he doesn't
remember, luckily,
he does remember the
night terrors or the fear
that he would have.
>>NOORY: And maybe that's
a protection mechanism
that the body has.
>>MASINO: I think so.
I think so.
But he did say-- it
was kind of sweet.
He said that if he had
to do it over again,
he would still go
down with the ship.
>>NOORY: With what you
know about your son,
and you're comfortable
with it now.
Were you comfortable
with it then?
>>MASINO: I was
worried about it,
mainly because of
the night terrors.
>>NOORY: Did you think there was
something going on in his head?
>>MASINO: Well, I
was just worried
that they weren't
going to go away.
He was very--
>>NOORY: So you
thought it was more
serious than what was happening?
>>MASINO: Right, right.
I mean, he was a bright,
really bright boy.
And picked up things
really quickly.
So I wasn't really worried
about his mental state,
but more of his emotional state.
Is he going to suffer
from this for very long?
Because the night terrors
sometimes were really--
they call them night
terrors for a good reason.
>>NOORY: Well I'm glad
he's doing well now.
It's a great story.
Susan, thank you for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>MASINO: Thank you.
Thank you for having me.
>>NOORY: Look, if you don't
believe in reincarnation
at this point, well,
you better think again.
Because stories like this
that Susan has told us
about her son, Jamie, about
living on the Titanic,
as being the designer
of the Titanic,
really will make you
wonder and question.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]